---
layout: article
title: "Latkes"
date: 2015-02-12T16:19:16-04:00
author: Aaron
modified:
categories: articles
excerpt: ""
tags: [Sides]
ads: false
toc: false
comments: false
share: false
image:
  feature: 4t5yhdrt.jpg
  teaser: 4t5yhdrt.jpg
  thumb: 4t5yhdrt.jpg
---

INGREDIENTS

5 cups peeled and grated Yukon potatoes, about 1 1/2 pounds  
2 1/2 cups peeled and grated parsnips, about 1 large parsnip   
2/3 cup fresh chives, minced  
4 egg whites  
2 tablespoons cornstarch  
5 tablespoons unsalted butter  
6 tablespoons sunflower oil  
Salt and pepper  
Sour cream, garnish  
Fresh chives, garnish  

DIRECTIONS

1) Peel and grate the parsnips and potatoes and rinse them gently under cold water.

2) Lay out the grated veggies on a few paper towels or a clean kitchen towel and pat them dry. The drier the better.

3) Stir together grated potatoes and parsnips with chives, egg whites, cornstarch, 1 teaspoon of kosher salt and a big pinch of black pepper. Stir together well.

4) In a large skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of butter and two tablespoons of oil over medium-high heat. Stir together as butter melts.

5) Working with about 1/3 cup of potato mixture, wring it out to remove some of the liquid, the add it to the hot pan and use a spatula to gently press it flat. Repeat until the pan is full. Try not to crowd the latkes too much so they brown nicely.

6) Fry latkes over medium-high heat for about five minutes per side. They should be really nicely browned.

7) Remove cooked latkes and let drain on a paper towel. Repeat until all the potato mixture is used. Add more butter and oil to the pan as needed to keep the pan well-oiled.

Serve latkes immediately with sour cream and chives or keep them warm in a 250 degree oven until you serve them.