---
layout: article
title: "Kosheri"
date: 2015-02-12T16:19:16-04:00
author: Aaron
modified:
categories: articles
excerpt: ""
tags: [Dinner]
ads: false
toc: false
comments: false
share: false
image:
  feature: es54ye6u.jpg
  teaser: es54ye6u.jpg
  thumb: es54ye6u.jpg
---
Ingredients  
300g green lentils  
200g basmati rice  
40g unsalted butter  
50g vermicelli noodles, broken into 4cm pieces  
400ml chicken stock or water  
½ tsp grated nutmeg  
1½ tsp ground cinnamon  
1½ tsp salt  
½ tsp black pepper  
4 tbsp olive oil  
2 white onions, halved and thinly sliced  

Spicy tomato sauce:  
4 tbsp olive oil  
2 garlic cloves, crushed  
2 hot red chillies, seeded and finely diced  
8 ripe tomatoes, chopped (tinned are fine)  
370ml water  
4 tbsp cider vinegar  
3 tsp salt  
2 tsp ground cumin  
20g coriander leaves, chopped  

This lentil and rice dish is one of the most popular in Egypt, sold hot by street vendors and specialist restaurants. It is not too far removed from the Indian kitchari, ancestor to the British kedgeree. Usually in Egypt it is served with a spicy tomato sauce, but it’s also delicious with cucumber, tomato and yoghurt salad.

Serves 4

Preparation:

To make the sauce, heat the olive oil in a saucepan, add the garlic and chills and fry for 2 minutes. Add the chopped tomatoes, water, vinegar, salt, and cumin. Bring to a boil, then lower the heat and simmer for 20 minutes, until slightly thickened. Remove the sauce from the heat, stir in the cilantro, and then taste. See if you want to add any salt, pepper, or extra cilantro. Keep hot or leave to cool; both ways will work with the hot kosheri. Just remember to adjust the seasoning again when cold.

Place the lentils in a large sieve and wash them under a cold running tap. Transfer to a large saucepan, cover with plenty of cold water, and bring to a boil. Lower the heat and simmer for 25 minutes. The lentils should be tender but far from mushy. Drain in a colander and set aside.

In a large bowl, cover the rice with cold water, wash, and then drain well. Melt the butter in a large saucepan over medium heat. Add the raw vermicelli. Stir, and continue frying and stirring until the vermicelli is golden brown. Add the drained rice and mix well until it is well coated in the butter. Now add the stock, nutmeg, cinnamon, salt, and pepper. Bring to a boil, cover, and then lower the heat to a minimum and simmer for 12 minutes. Turn off the heat, remove the lid, cover the pan with a clean kitchen towel, and put the lid back on. Leave like that for about 5 minutes; this helps make the rice light and fluffy.

Heat the olive oil in a large frying pan, add the onions, and sauté over medium heat for about 20 minutes, until dark brown. Transfer to paper towels to drain.

To serve, lightly break up the rice with a fork and then add the lentils and most of the onions, reserving a few for garnish. Taste for seasoning and adjust accordingly. Pile the rice high on a serving platter and top with the remaining onions. Serve hot, with the hot tomato sauce.